One of the questions that we got earlier
were a little bit more about how
observables work under the hood.
Like, what is the thing that triggers
next and complete, so on and so forth.
So I wrote one additional bonus test,
which is we're gonna to kind of like
write our own observable, in this case,
with our own logic and kind of see the
kind of different pieces of an observable.
A lot of times like you will just
kind of either we're basing it off of
things that happened.
Were taking a promise and
turn it into observable.
We are taking events I think about making
your own bespoke observable a lot like
when you use the promise constructor to
write your own promise, does it happen?
Occasionally.
Does it happen often?
Nope.
Right.
And
that is very much the case about
constructing a new promise.
Our new observable as well is most
of the time you don't need to do it.
But let's show you how just in case.
So we go here and here we can go ahead and
say omega observable, and
we'll say new observable.
And how when you make a new promise
it's new promise it takes a resolve and
a reject.
Not dissimilar an observable takes
a subscriber you can name it whatever you
want, but that is what the type script and
telesense will, suggest that you name it.
And in here we can write all of
our custom logic around how this
observable should work.
So, we could say, subscriber.next('John'),
We can say the one after that is Paul,
George, Ringo.
And because we're doing this
one by hand and not using of or
from we are in charge of telling the
observable when it has completed, right?
So this one we'd say instead of like
return in the generator that we saw
before, we'll just simply
say subscriber.complete().
And that doesn't take any values.
And this is effectively very similar
to that generator that we saw as well.
The important thing to note is we've
seen now synchronous observables and
asynchronous observables, right?
This is a synchronous one,
because when we create the new observable,
it's just going to run through this code.
Right?
And we'll kind of play around with some of
this in a second just
to get a sense of it.
But it's going to run this line of code.
Its just its normal JavaScript.
There's nothing particularly
special until you were to put
like a set timeout in there.
Well then yeah right like that would have
it would become an asynchronous one.
We'll take a look at this in
a second let's just make sure this
test passed before we play around
with it any more than that.
Great and now it passes.
So the interesting part here is
also we know with promises for
instance, once a promise
resolves that's it, right?
The promise has resolved that's how
I feel about New Year's resolutions.
Same thing is true with an observable,
once it completes we'll never
get to this line of code.
It's almost the same thing as like
a return statement in a function right,
once you get to that complete it is
game over we'll never add Ringo to
The Beatles which is sad.
But that's the example and so
this test will now fail, because,
should fail, it's running.
Yep, it fails because Ringo
has been kicked out so
the little minus sign
Ringo is not in there,
because we've already completed it,
we closed the observable stream.
It is over at this point.
So if we were to throw an error, anything
that would happen after the error.
If we didn't catch it would also
complete the observable as well.
So this is how you can kind of write
a bespoke observable if you need to.
If you have some kind of custom
logic that of or from or whatever,
doesn't work for you.
This will do the trick and you can write
your own logic in this case, as well.